Hey welcome back.
We're going to do a little quick brainstorm.
First for the smoke chili case study.
All right when we're thinking about a restaurant here the some of the things that you may want to think
about as you go through the modeling process for a restaurant you're going to have to think about food
costs.
All right so part of the food costs is going to come from your menu items you're going to have different
menus.
You may have different assumptions around what people are actually going to be buying.
You know and there's a learning process for a restaurant that means when you first open a restaurant
you're not going to be able to operate at 100 percent efficiency.
You're going to have more ways you're going to have higher learning curves you're going to be less efficient.
So that means a lot of your costs early on are going to be higher than your target or your benchmarks.
But eventually you're going to get there.
All right so when we're thinking about benchmarks especially in terms of revenue this is one of the
cases where you do want to use industry benchmarks.
In the case of tech startups a lot of times you're doing something new.
You don't really have anything really similar to go off of mean you're going to have to find something
that may be similar or you do more of a market sizing right.
And do some sort of growth assumptions that we've done but for something like a restaurant where you
know this is a very known business model.
I mean you're not inventing something completely new your menu might be a little bit different.
You know your concept might be a little bit different but a restaurant category depending on what price
ranges and what size of your restaurant there is pretty well known benchmarks that the industry can
give you in terms of expected revenue targets or you know how much you should be spending on labor or
food costs and things like that.
So how are we going to model this out.
We're actually instead of trying to do things like foot traffic coming to the restaurant and then and
then what percentage of them buys or sits down and then you know what are they buying.
What we're gonna do is a better way to do this is you find a benchmark and then look at how long it's
going to take you to get to that benchmark and stabilize that that mark and assuming some inefficiencies
early on this makes the process a lot easier and actually turns out to be more accurate and more useful
than to go about the other way so other things that you know we're going to be thinking about could
be the average ticket just this will help you understand kind of how many people you need to get through
the transactions you may have to do in a given period of time just to see if you're in the right ballpark.
We're going to have to think about things like labor and labor deployment because well you know you're
going to have probably a salary manager and then you're going to have different hourly people who may
have an assistant manager and have you know hourly people that are working at different parts of the
day right.
Maybe during peak hours you're going to have a lot more people working then during off peak hours.
And then of course you know there's always going to be overheard things like rent and utilities and
we are also going to look at the startup costs as well.
The parts of getting the building out the restaurant and getting it ready for training and for the grand
opening.
OK.
One other thing that people don't think about before opening a restaurant type of business is this thing
called ramping up and honeymoon period.
We've looked at a lot of different business models for startups and we know that you don't just go 0
to 100 on day one.
It takes time to grow and build up.
Right.
And the same thing is true for brick and mortar businesses.
For a restaurant like that opening a restaurant means it takes time for you to get the word out there
for people to find out about your restaurant for you to slowly ramp up.
Now the other thing is there's a phenomenon called the honeymoon effect in restaurants where early on
when it first opens certain beers certain restaurant concepts will have a very distinct honeymoon period.
OK.
And for the Chipotle Restaurant OK which is something very similar to the smoked chili case that we
were doing a Jabali restaurants the new restaurants they tend to grow more slowly but then they ramp
up to a higher stabilize rate.
Now most other restaurants.
What happens is they ramp up very quickly to a high honeymoon sales and then they kind of slowly come
back down to stabilize rate.
So that's what we're going to assume here for smoke chili because not every restaurant is going to have
that kind of brand recognition.
You know even with the deam that Chipotle has taken in this past year with the whole food poisoning
fiasco they're still doing quite well from what you'll see in just a little bit.
OK.
So here's just kind of a quick brainstorm of the different elements of a restaurant business starter.
So first thing we're going to do is we're going to take a look at the average ticket size OK.
And the way we're going to do that is we're going to look at the menu here.
OK so we're going to have a really simple menu.
There's only three items here.
There's burrito there's tacos and then there's a salad and there's a price for it.
OK.
And then here is the cost of goods sold.
Basically all the ingredients including the paper products.
How much does it go into a single delivering the single burrito or this taco.
OK.
Now I provided some industry benchmarks for you.
This is courtesy of restaurant owner dot com.
And if you look at different sources they're going to be pretty similar.
I've been in the restaurant industry for a few years so do have some familiarity with the figures and
this is pretty much in line with what I was expecting to find.
Now the food costs.
OK.
So for each of these We're going to do the menu we're going to have three main items and then we're
going to have some add on maybe there's you know like an added walk guacamole to it or they can add
some extra meat and and there's beverages.
OK.
Now for the main items everyone is going to buy at least one of these meat items if they're going to
go there and buy something they're going to buy one of these men and that's where we're going to assume.
But then only some of the people will have add ons you know eight percent of the people that buys anything
up here what get Quoc with it.
And then 5 percent will get the extra meat and then here is the percentage of people that actually buy
the beverages.
OK.
So when we have this information like this and this you're going to have to make a best guess you know
based on the menu that you expect.
OK.
Now you can be more conservative and add a little bit more padding to it but especially as you start
to operate or do some you know light opening you're going to be able to get a pretty good feel for what
your product mix is going to be what people are actually going to be buying.
But the more important thing is to know what kind of pricing you're going to charge and how much it
costs you to actually produce that item.
OK.
So then what that can give us then is the average order size of the typical customer this restaurant
concept it's going to be about a 50 and you know given that some of them are going to buy these higher
margin add ons and beverages.
The food costs are going to come down a little bit compared to the food costs of just the main items.
OK.
So so we have this information but like what we did with the lemonade stand example.
Not every person who comes in is going to come in alone.
Right.
So the average party size is going to be maybe closer to two people.
So when we make that assumption now we can get a sense of what is the average ticket ok per ticket value
of a transaction that's coming into the restaurant it's about 14 54 to 46 and that's where the food
costs are.
So you can see if we just have a simple menu we can actually make some pretty good educated guesses
around what the average ticket size would be.
Now some industry benchmarks just see you guys can get some familiarity with with this.
Is that typically for food costs in the restaurant industry.
You know you try to target somewhere between 20 to 32 percent of sales where paper products make up
1 to 4 percent of sales you know different concepts will use different amounts.
So if you're primarily a take out on do a lot of take out you're going to have a much higher use of
paper products versus if you only pretty much do sit down and where most people just sit down and don't
order out or don't have a lot to take away.
Some other benchmarks that are important.
Think about is occupancy costs generally as a restaurant you want to target your rents to be 6 percent
or less of your sales and total occupancy costs would be including taxes and insurance that would go
into that.
So for that when you want to target less than 10 percent of sales now payroll or labor is typically
the other big costs.
Okay.
So between food costs and labor those will make what is call your prime costs.
So for labor you know depending on the type of restaurant if you're a full service restaurant you know
being a full sit down you've got somebody taking you to the tables and waiting on you and taking orders
at the table and everything you're looking at 30 to 35 percent for labor.
But if it's more of a limited service if you're kind of a fast casual then you know something more like
smoke chili.
You're trying to target less than 30 percent for your labor.
And here's a breakdown of the labor generally you want your salaried manager to be less than 10 percent
of sales your enrollees total enrollees to make up 15 to 20 percent.
OK.
And benefits usually is somewhere around 5 to 6 percent of sales or 20 to 25 percent of your total payroll.
Now when you add up your COGS and your labor if it's a full service you want it to be less than 65 percent
of your sales.
If it's more of a fast casual or fast food you want it to be even lower than that maybe more like 60
percent.
OK.
In terms of performance.
One of the metrics that's used in industry for restaurants to measure sales performance is sales per
square feet.
So for how much space it is what does the sales per square feet.
In that given year.
And here are some metrics that they provide that are kind of interesting and I think it's a little bit
on the lower end but let's just go real quick.
So there's saying for a full service restaurant it is doing less than $150 in sales per square feet.
They're losing money.
And then if it's somewhere in this range to break even if it's over $250 it's start to make a profit.
And then over 350 They make a really good profit.
Okay.
And for fast casual quick service generally because they have a much smaller footprint.
So that's why the per square foot figures have to be higher.
OK.
So they have they have to do more sales get more out of the square foot feet that they have to give
you an idea the average size of a chipotle store is just under 2600 square feet.
Right.
So what that means is for a Chipotle the store if it makes does less than 500000 sales it's losing money.
And for sure it is doing less and that is losing money.
I don't know if actually it can break even at 645 thousand.
You know this is assuming two hundred fifty mark even.
It's not really quite there.
I think it can start to make a profit at this point for sure.
And then you know obviously you make a bigger profit at this range.
But give me an idea of just how good of a restaurant Chipotle is.
You know for the average store size you know their average store in 2015 to 2.4 million in sales.
Now even with the food poisoning incident in 2016 their average store sales were still 1.9 million in
2016.
That means that their average sales per square foot were $930 in 2015 and 736 dollars per square feet
in 2016 definitely is performing way higher than industry averages.
You know in the same category.
Right.
So that's why they've been doing very well and they're still very profitable despite issues in recent
years.
All right let's move on to the start of a worksheet.
So here we're going to assume this space of the same size as it or partly store for smoked chili restaurant.
Now here are some of the categories of start up costs for a restaurant.
Usually you're renting out a space and you're going to have some sort of security deposit that's usually
around two months rent.
We're picking a pretty decent location so we're going to have a pretty sizable security deposit.
And just give me an idea I'm thinking in terms of Los Angeles in Los Angeles for available retail restaurant
spaces less than $20 a square feet.
The locations are pretty crappy.
But you know around 30 bucks you're kind of in the middle tier and if you're looking at $50 plus faces
you're kind of looking at prime downtown locations.
So that's pretty pricey here.
We're assuming something around the 40s.
Okay.
Now build out and fixtures this is something that you're going to have to do your research on.
You know depending on the content and really depending on what you want to put in there it can vary
a lot and generally what you'll see is that a lot of new restaurant entrepreneurs tend to overspend
on out fixtures they want to make everything pretty they overspend on a whole lot of things that you
know are very aesthetic but kind of puts them in a bad position 400000 for build out for a store size
like this is actually not that much.
In fact I think chipotle might be spending anywhere from six to seven hundred for their bill that potentially
because the stores do so well they can spend more on their bill that they can spend more and still get
away with it for it.
But for kind of a mom and pop restaurants start up you're going to have to make sure you save wherever
you can.
Equipment and appliances you know depending on your concept and what you're buying you know if you're
if you're using some heavy equipment some specialized equipment you're going to have to pay more if
you have a lot of freezers and you need a bigger refrigerator storage refrigerator.
And you have lot of stuff that needs cold storage.
It's going to be more expensive furniture for something of this size.
That's a good estimate as a starting point.
You know this is not just finding super great deals but you're also not spending way too much into other
things you're going to have to spend money on your POS system.
That's called point of sales.
Right.
So you know it's a simple one you know register to register that check out.
This might be cheaper but if you're going to have something where it's connected to I-pads that people
can order and your associates can walk out and you know maybe you have a drive through or something
then and it might cost a little bit more.
Part of the startup costs too is you want to buy some initial food supplies because you might be doing
some you know soft openings for training also you're going to need some of that.
So there's permanent licenses signage.
You're going to have to do menus and you're you need a budget to do your soft opening employee training.
You can't just hire people and expect them to be able to work when you have a grand opening.
You've got to bring them on you know a few weeks beforehand and kind of run through the process and
train them and do a little run through with friends and family who are going to be ordering and eating
and so you get people in the kitchen to practice and people you know doing the orders and all of that
everybody gets a little bit of practice right.
And of course when you first open you're going to do a grand opening you're going to do a little bit
more marketing and trying to get get some attention.
Drive awareness so you want to set aside some budget for that as well as you know setting a little bit
aside for miscellaneous other things that you might have missed.
So that comes down to about six hundred twenty five thousand in this startup here.
But we know that you're not going to make money on day one you're going to be losing money for a few
months as you ramp up sales.
So we're going to need some working capital.
So this is going to be calculated later when you look at the full picture.
So next lecture going to look at revenue.